leap years no they don't happen
all the time but need to do
presidential elections but
people freak out when it was a
presidential election year is
rare
no it's every four years chill
out we on earth as we orbit the
Sun we know how to calculate a
year is how long it takes to
come back to where you were
that's a year but it turns out
if you cut the number of days we
live in to the year it doesn't
divide evenly so there's not an
even number of days in the time
it takes earth to go around the
Sun it takes like three hundred
sixty five and a quarter days to
go around the Sun so we just
ignore that quarter day
just sweep it under the rug for
three years
the fourth year how many
quarters have you added up four
quarters
so there's a whole day now that
you saved up and in the fourth
year you put that day back in
the calendar and you give it to
the neediest month
februari and so this is the
origin of the leap day and this
is as it was conceived in the
julian calendar the calendar
that preceded the current
calendar of the gregorian
calendar
most people don't know that this
one every four year rule over
correct the weekday
it's not actually threw in a 65
and a quarter day
it's a little bit less than a
quarter so you wait four years
and put in a whole day that you
put in too much
so you have to wait until you
put in a whole day too much then
you take out elite day that
would have otherwise appeared so
every hundred years you have
over corrected by a leak day by
an entire day so every hundred
years hundred years are
divisible by four
aren't they every hundred years
you take out the lead day that
would have otherwise been there
so 1900 was not a leap year
1800 was not a leap year 1700
was not only . for this reason
ok so now by taking out that day
now you have over corrected in
the opposite direction and now
there's a day that you have to
put back in it turns out every
400 years
so every 400 years in the
century year that would have not
had a leap day on the century
rule gets a leap day put back in
on the 400 year rule this sounds
complicated but it has profound
implications in the year 2000
it's a century year that
wouldn't normally get a leap day
but it says century year
divisible by 400 we put the leap
day back in
so when everyone experienced the
leap day in the year 2000 you're
saying to herself
of course it's a leap year it's
divisible by four
it's like no it's a leap year
because it's a century year
divisible by 400 therein is the
gregorian calendar as it was
established in 1582 that's the
story of the calendar
you asked ok I was sitting here
minding my own business and you
have to ask about the calendar
and the leap
yeah